## 2.1.3 UERANSIM 

UERANSIM is an open-source simulator for User Equipment (UE) in 5G networks. It is developed in C++ and Python programming languages. It leverages various libraries and frameworks to simulate the behavior of User Equipment (UE) in 5G networks. It incorporates protocol stacks compliant with 3GPP specifications to emulate the signaling and data transfer protocols used in 5G networks. This includes protocols for radio access, session management, and mobility management. UERANSIM consists of simulation modules that replicate the functionalities of connection establishment, handover procedures, data transmission, and reception. The implementation ensured that the simulation environment closely mimics real-world conditions, including radio channel characteristics, propagation models, interference effects, and network congestion. It enabled emulating UE behavior across diverse network scenarios, facilitating comprehensive testing and validation of 5G network operations. By incorporating UERANSIM, the project ensured meticulous examination of genuine UE interactions, encompassing registration, authentication, and data transfer processes. This deliberate utilization underscored the project's commitment to rigorous testing methodologies and the advancement of 5G network research and development.

<div style="text-align: center;">
    <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.2_Open5gs_Core.md">Previous </a> | <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.4_RADIO_ACCESS_NETWORKS.md">Next</a>
</div>