### 2.1.4 RADIO ACCESS NETWORKS
The Radio Access Network (RAN) establishes radio links between different network regions and individual devices in wireless communication. These connections allow communication through devices like phones, laptops, or remotely operated equipment, using either fiber or wireless connectivity. The RAN services utilized in our project included the open-source project UERANSIM, which consists of two main components: the gNodeB and the UE. The UE, acting as a subscriber device, simulated the behavior of user equipment within the network. On the other hand, the gNodeB connected to the Access and Mobility Management Function (AMF) and controlled user traffic on simulated radio connections.  

The implementation of RAN involved configuring and customizing both the UE and gNodeB components using configuration files located in the config/ directory. These configuration files allowed us to define various parameters and settings related to network behavior, mobility, and traffic management [2]. Overall, the RAN served as the backbone of our project's wireless communication infrastructure, enabling us to conduct comprehensive trials and evaluations of 5G network functionality. Its components, including the UE and gNodeB, were instrumental in simulating real-world network scenarios and facilitating efficient communication between network elements and user devices. 

<div style="text-align: center;">
    <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.3_UERANSIM.md">Previous </a> | <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.5_Kamailio_SIP_Server.md">Next</a>
</div>