## 2.1.2 Open5gs Core

Open5GS is an open-source platform that provides a versatile framework for implementing critical functionalities of the 5G network architecture. It enables the deployment and management of 5G core network elements, including the control plane and user plane functions, facilitating seamless communication between network elements and supporting dynamic scalability and customization. It is written in the C programming language and designed to run on Linux-based operating systems. The 5G core is essential to network operations because it controls data flow, makes it easier for User Equipment (UE) to connect, provides essential network services, and strengthens security protocols. Its architecture consists of two separate functional planes, the Control Plane, and the User Plane, each with designated functions to provide self-sufficient scaling and dynamic deployments, a concept known as Software-Defined Networking (SDN).  

Three essential parts make up the User Plane in a wireless communication system: the User Equipment (UE), the User Plane Function (UPF), and the Radio Access Network (RAN). UE access to the Internet is facilitated by the Radio Access Network (RAN), while QoS is managed and a link between the RAN and other networks is provided by the User Plane Function (UPF). The Control Plane encompasses critical functions such as the Session Management Function (SMF), responsible for session maintenance between UE and UPF, and the Access and Mobility Management Function (AMF), which governs access control [1]. Several open-source initiatives are available to help deploy 5G Stand-Alone (SA) networks, with Open5gs standing out as a standout offering. So, using Open5gs boasts the realization of sixteen crucial network functions, such as AMF, SMF, PCF, UDM, AUSF, NRF, NSSF, UDR, and UPF.


<div style="text-align: center;">
    <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.1_Linux_22_04.md">Previous </a> | <a href="/5gtechtribe/Documentations/Project_Architecture/2.1.3_UERANSIM.md">Next</a>
</div>