# 3.6 Next Cloud Configuration Configurations

Nextcloud is a file sharing server that permits you to store your personal content, like documents and pictures, in a centralized location, much like Dropbox. The difference with Nextcloud is that all of its features are open-source. It also returns the control and security of your sensitive data back to you, thus eliminating the use of a third-party cloud hosting service.

<details>
<summary>Step 1 :  Installing Nextcloud</summary>
## Step 1 :  Installing Nextcloud
We will be installing Nextcloud using the Snap packaging system. This packaging system, available on Ubuntu 22.04 by default, allows organizations to ship software, along with all associated dependencies and configuration, in a self-contained unit with automatic updates. This means that instead of installing and configuring a web and database server and then configuring the Nextcloud app to run on it, we can install the snap package which handles the underlying systems automatically.

- Download the Nextcloud snap package and install it on the system, type:
  ```bash
  sudo snap install nextcloud
  ```
- The Nextcloud package will be downloaded and installed on your server. You can confirm that the installation process was successful by listing the changes associated with the snap:
  ```bash
  snap changes nextcloud
  ```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Step 2 : Configuring an Administrative Account</summary>
## Step 2: Configuring an Administrative Account
To configure Nextcloud with a new administrator account, use the nextcloud.manual-install command. You must pass in a `username` and a `password` as arguments:
```bash
sudo nextcloud.manual-install sammy password
```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Step 3 : Adjusting the Trusted Domains</summary>
## Step 3: Adjusting the Trusted Domains
- You can view the current settings by querying the value of the trusted_domains array:
  ```bash
  sudo nextcloud.occ config:system:get trusted_domains
  ```
- Currently, only `localhost` is present as the first value in the array. We can add an entry for our server’s domain name or IP address by typing:
  ```bash
  sudo nextcloud.occ config:system:set trusted_domains 1 --value=example.com
  ```
- If we query the trusted domains again, we will see that we now have two entries:
  ```bash
  sudo nextcloud.occ config:system:get trusted_domains
  ```
</details>

<details>
<summary>Step 4: Securing the Nextcloud Web Interface with SSL</summary>
## Step 4: Securing the Nextcloud Web Interface with SSL

- Start by opening the ports in the firewall that Let’s Encrypt uses to validate domain ownership. This will make your Nextcloud login page publicly accessible, but since we already have an administrator account configured, no one will be able to hijack the installation:
  ```bash
  sudo ufw allow 80,443/tcp
  ```
- Next, request a Let’s Encrypt certificate by typing:
  ```bash
  sudo nextcloud.enable-https lets-encrypt
  ```
</details>

<details>
<summary>tep 5: Logging in to the Nextcloud Web Interface</summary>
## Step 5: Logging in to the Nextcloud Web Interface
Now that Nextcloud is configured, visit your server’s domain name or IP address in your web browser:
```
https://example.com
```
Since you have already configure an administrator account from the command line, you will be taken to the Nextcloud login page. Enter the credentials you created for the administrative user:

Click the Log in button to log in to the Nextcloud web interface.</details>